README.md, before:

# ML Smart Portfolio Rebalancer
**Live App:** https://nusfintech-portfolio-optimiser.streamlit.app/

A machine-learning powered portfolio optimization tool that predicts volatility and generates optimal asset allocation using EGARCH, XGBoost, and Monte Carlo simulation.

## Features
- Volatility Prediction: EGARCH + XGBoost hybrid model
- Smart Returns: Blended arithmetic & geometric mean
- Portfolio Optimization: Monte Carlo simulation with Sharpe ratio maximization
- Interactive Dashboard: Streamlit web interface
- Rebalancing: Automated Buy/Sell/Hold recommendations

## Quick Start
Installation
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Run the App
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

## Usage
1. Enter tickers: AAPL, NVDA, MSFT, BTC-USD
2. Set current portfolio weights
3. Click Run Optimization
4. View results and rebalancing plan

## How It Works
### Volatility Prediction
- EGARCH(1,1): Captures volatility clustering
- XGBoost: Uses engineered features (returns, volume, lags)
- Output: Next-day annualized volatility

## Optimisation
Monte Carlo simulation → Maximum Sharpe ratio → Optimal weights

## Expected Returns
$$R = 0.5 \cdot R_{\text{arith}} + 0.5 \cdot R_{\text{geo}}$$

## Covariance Matrix
$$\Sigma_{\text{future}} = D \cdot Corr \cdot D$$

## Authors
- Dexun
- Thaddus
- Eron

Commit message:

Update README with clearer project description
Refined description of the portfolio optimization tool to clarify the use of Monte Carlo simulations for determining optimal portfolio weightings.

README.md, after:

# ML Smart Portfolio Rebalancer
**Live App:** https://nusfintech-portfolio-optimiser.streamlit.app/

A machine-learning powered portfolio optimization tool that predicts volatility using EGARCH and XGBoost. Optimal portfolio weightings based on the Markowitz Portfolio Theory is determined via Monte Carlo simulations based on highest Sharpe Ratio.

## Features
- Volatility Prediction: EGARCH + XGBoost hybrid model
- Smart Returns: Blended arithmetic & geometric mean
- Portfolio Optimization: Monte Carlo simulation with Sharpe ratio maximization
- Interactive Dashboard: Streamlit web interface
- Rebalancing: Automated Buy/Sell/Hold recommendations

## Quick Start
Installation
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
Run the App
```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

## Usage
1. Enter tickers: AAPL, NVDA, MSFT, BTC-USD
2. Set current portfolio weights
3. Click Run Optimization
4. View results and rebalancing plan

## How It Works
### Volatility Prediction
- EGARCH(1,1): Captures volatility clustering
- XGBoost: Uses engineered features (returns, volume, lags)
- Output: Next-day annualized volatility

## Optimisation
Monte Carlo simulation → Maximum Sharpe ratio → Optimal weights

## Expected Returns
$$R = 0.5 \cdot R_{\text{arith}} + 0.5 \cdot R_{\text{geo}}$$

## Covariance Matrix
$$\Sigma_{\text{future}} = D \cdot Corr \cdot D$$

## Authors
- Dexun
- Thaddus
- Eron
